# WeatherPred
WeatherPred: An application to predict temperatures using Spark mllib

Our project, WeatherPred is an application enabling weather predictions in the 50 most populated American cities. The genuine objective behind the application of this application was to use some of the cloud technologies available to deal with large datasets. Moreover, we were able to gain more expertise in Machine Learning by training a regression model on our data to predict future temperatures for a given city. In order to process, and clean the data, we leveraged the power of bash and awk by coding many scripts to clean the raw data. Then, the processing part was also mostly done in Apache Spark which we also used to implement the machine learning model thanks to the mllib library. It is important to note that because of the insufficient computing processing power and storage that our laptops were able to provide, we used AWS by deploying EC2 instances on a standalone Spark cluster. Finally, we took the opportunity to try Amazon ML on our data and assessed how it compared to our ML model in Spark. 
 
The second part of that project dealt with the implementation of the User Interface. First of all, we imported the prediction data from Spark into Apache Pig, in order to format it in a proper queryable form.  Afterwards, this data was stored in Hive. Our UI consists in a Flask Web Application in Python with JavaScript; where the user selects a city from a dropdown list and input a specific date. The location and the predicted temperature of the day after the input date are shown in a map chart. The predicted and actual temperature comparison for the whole month of the input date are visualised in a line chart. The user input validation was implemented as the user must fill out the location and data otherwise an alert will show up and the form won't be submitted. Furthermore, the range of the date input is limited based on the range of the timestamp in the dataset.
